---
layout: post
title: "Using the Metasploit Framework in the cloud with Docker"
description: "Moving your familiar toolset to ridiculous performances with Docker, for free"
thumbnail: cloud-upload-alt 
categories: offensive
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
published: false
tags:
  - metasploit
  - cloud
  - aws
  - gce
  - pentest
  - secops
  - docker
---


*I'll be illustrating different methods of deploying the Metasploit Framework to cloud providers, and different ways to take advantage of this setup. Some basic sysadmin and docker knowledge is also expected.*  
<!--more-->

The Metasploit Framework will be shortened to *MSF* through this post.

- [The setup](#the-setup)
    - [Finding a cloud](#finding-a-cloud)
    - [Identity and defaults](#identity-and-defaults)
- [Getting started](#getting-started)
    - [Docker](#docker)
    - [Metasploit](#metasploit)
        - [Deploy methods descriptions (little individual tables for a presentation mode?)](#deploy-methods-descriptions-little-individual-tables-for-a-presentation-mode)
            - [debian+postgres](#debianpostgres)
            - [dev](#dev)
            - [kali bare](#kali-bare)
            - [kali full](#kali-full)
- [Deploying Metasploit](#deploying-metasploit)
    - [debian+postgres](#debianpostgres)
    - [dev](#dev)
    - [kali bare](#kali-bare)
    - [kali full](#kali-full)
- [Deploying MSFDB](#deploying-msfdb)
    - [KISS = debian image](#kiss--debian-image)
    - [example from battlecloud](#example-from-battlecloud)
- [Talking to MSF](#talking-to-msf)
    - [docker attach](#docker-attach)
    - [docker machine](#docker-machine)
    - [webssh](#webssh)
- [Volumes](#volumes)
    - [/loot dir](#loot-dir)
    - [Add nginx to browse files (no compose keep it simple)](#add-nginx-to-browse-files-no-compose-keep-it-simple)
- [Using msfvenom](#using-msfvenom)
    - [Generating & Retrieving your payload](#generating--retrieving-your-payload)
    - [AES from MSF dev](#aes-from-msf-dev)
- [Demo](#demo)



# The setup

## Finding a cloud
If you're reading this, chances are you're familiar with Rapid7's MSF. If not, starting with the [Metasploit Unleashed](https://www.offensive-security.com/metasploit-unleashed/) posts is the easiest.  

This will work for any cloud provider, as long as you can install docker or run containers directly. The typical providers are:  
* AWS
* Google Cloud Engine
* Azure
* Linode
* Vultr
* Scaleway

Most of them offer **a free tier at sign up of around $100**. This is more than enough to get started.  

*You can find more information on free PaaS providers and such in the famous [free for devs](https://github.com/ripienaar/free-for-dev#paas) list. Check it out if you have not already!*

## Identity and defaults

Most cloud providers require you to configure your *Identities*. It's basically a allow/deny of actions for roles that you'll be using. Respective providers have great documentation to "Get started". It's also a good idea to read about the best practices for your provider later.  

The keep the post simple, I'll assume you're using a provider with basic deployment capabilities configured.  
Either a vanilla Ubuntu server, or a Docker server image from your cloud provider will do fine.

# Getting started

## Docker

This subject is very well documented by the official team as well as professionals and enthusiasts.  
For a basic install on a Ubuntu server, [just follow the Docker documentation](https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/docker-ce/ubuntu/).


Once your server is up and running, access it with `ssh`.

## Metasploit

### Deploy methods descriptions (little individual tables for a presentation mode?)

#### debian+postgres
#### dev
#### kali bare
#### kali full

# Deploying Metasploit
## debian+postgres

## dev

## kali bare

## kali full


# Deploying MSFDB
## KISS = debian image
## example from battlecloud

# Talking to MSF
## docker attach
## docker machine
## webssh

# Volumes
## /loot dir
## Add nginx to browse files (no compose keep it simple)

# Using msfvenom
## Generating & Retrieving your payload
## AES from MSF dev


# Demo